you're sitting in a PAC theater the
lights go down and you can hear a
whisper of anticipation ripple through
the crowd but then it goes silent before
the movie even begins you're already on
edge or maybe you're sitting alone at
night in bed do you feel safe until you
open up the book on your bedside table a
Stephen King classic that gives you
chills even though you've read it ten
times you're curled up on your couch
it's late at night the lights are off
and you're about to watch the latest
episode of a TV show that gives you
nightmares these three situations all
end with a smile as you laugh at
yourself for being afraid we love being
afraid horror movies books and TV shows
give us a thrill that's hardwired into
us as human beings the thrill of being
afraid
having your pulse race muscles tense but
knowing in the end that you're safe
I fell in love with horror movies when I
was six years old that's when I saw
Friday the 13th part 7 a new blood for
the very first time it was my first
slasher movie and my first horror movie
in general and besides being kind of
shocked to see blood on the screen for
the first time I wasn't the least bit
scared
granted Friday the 13th part 7 is more
akin to an x-men movie than Texas
Chainsaw Massacre the main character
literally kills Jason by using psychic
powers but it was still a horror movie
and a great gateway to the genre for the
next two decades I devoured that genre
I had a shelf dedicated to my horror
movie VHS a--'s DVDs and now blu-rays
Halloween Friday the 13th
Nightmare on Elm Street Hellraiser Texas
Chainsaw Massacre all the greats I
eventually moved on to the grandparents
of the horror genre the Universal
Monsters Dracula Frankenstein the
Wolfman the mummy and the Invisible Man
and in my mid-teens after letting
everyone know that I was gay and getting
to know more people in the queer
community I came to a realization gays
really love horror movies of course
there are exceptions I still can't get
my roommate to watch 2017 it but for the
most part it seemed like every gay guy
and girl absolutely adored horror movies
from the top-tier ones like The Exorcist
to the bottom of the rung
direct-to-video sequels to the
Leprechaun child's play and sleepaway
camp there's even a massive amount of
gay themed slasher movies on Netflix
usually involving frat brothers so where
did this gay fascination with horror
come from James Jenkins of vallencourt
books notes that the connection between
gay fiction and horror goes all the way
back to the gothic novels of the early
1800s many gothic authors Lake Matthew
Lewis William Thomas Beckford and
Francis Latham were gay and that
reflected in their work according to
Jenkins the traditional explanation for
the gay horror connection is that it was
impossible for them to write openly
about gay themes back then or even
perhaps express them at all since words
like gay and homosexual didn't exist so
they sublimated them and express them in
more acceptable forms using the medium
of a transgressive
genre like horror in 1890 Lippincott's
monthly magazine commissioned a short
story by then little-known author Oscar
Wilde that would eventually become the
novel the Picture of Dorian Gray the
story follows the titular Dorian Gray
who has had a portrait painted by an
artist named basil once he's seen the
portrait he wishes that it would grow
old and age instead of him and his wish
having been granted the portrait becomes
a twisted reflection of Dorian's
deviance and vices the wish for eternal
youth is certainly present in gay
culture but the dandyism of the Picture
of Dorian Gray is much more obvious in
other parts of the work for instance
when basil has his first meeting with
Dorian Gray when our eyes met I felt I
was growing pale a curious sensation of
Terror came over me I knew that I had
come face to face with someone whose
mere personality was so fascinating that
if I allowed it to do so it would absorb
my whole nature my whole soul my very
art itself and then later saying we were
quite close almost touching later in the
novel Lord Henry a dear friend of the
artist basil says to Dorian you mr. gray
you yourself with your rose red you thin
your rose white boy hood you have had
passions that have made you afraid
thoughts that have filled you with
terror daydreams and sleeping dreams
whose mere memory might stain your
cheeks with shame Oscar Wilde does not
present any of the characters in a
picture of dorian gray as overtly
homosexual in fact Lord Henry is married
and Dorian begins dating an actress but
he's more in love with the art of her
acting in fact when she tells him that
she'll stop acting to be with him he
dumps her and he's not the slightest bit
upset to hear about her suicide in 2005
Joseph Carroll professor of philosophy
and literature at the University of
Missouri wrote among heterosexuals
feminine characteristics act as a
stimulus or trigger for male sexual
desire one chief reason a feminine see
can be easily integrated with a
homoerotic persona is that a feminine
see indirectly suggests that the
effeminate male could himself be an
object of male desire early
in the story before the more
supernatural elements kick in Dorian is
upset that the portrait will forever
remain beautiful and young while he will
wither and aged the tears welled in his
eyes he tore his hand away and flinging
himself on the divan he buried his face
in the cushions as though he were
praying Joseph Carroll finds scenes of
women lying thrown and weeping are
common enough in Victorian fiction but
scenes depicting males in that posture
are vanishingly rare once the novel saw
its final publication at least for the
1800s
critics zeroed in on the effeminacy of
the novel especially the main character
over the next century critics and fans
would discover the more overt
homosexuality in Oscar Wilde's most
famous work now instead of pulling
quotes from novels and intellectual
articles for the rest of the video I'm
going to start focusing on more modern
interpretations of gay horror and I'd
like to talk about the worlds the most
famous monster that you never knew was
analog ously queer Mary Shelley's
Frankenstein or the modern prometheus
Victor Frankenstein the titular mad
scientist shows little to no interest in
his wife-to-be and is determined to
create life on his own his own perfect
man something explored without subtlety
in the Rocky Horror Picture Show
but when digging up the body parts that
he'll eventually use to compile the
monster he makes sure to pick the
sexiest body parts he can find he wants
an Adonis just like Frank inverter once
born against his own free will as we all
are Frankenstein's monster is rejected
by its creator as something terrible a
regretful mistake that ought to be done
away with
he even flees from the monster because
it's so hideous Frankenstein's reaction
to the birth of his creation isn't that
far off from the reaction of many overly
religious parents when they find out
that their child is gay they look at
them as monsters ungodly and although
most of these parents don't actually
attempt to kill their children though
that does happen
they may cut them out of their lives an
emotional murder if you will but at the
same time there is a homoerotic subtext
between Victor Frankenstein and his
monster the monster tracks down his
creator and Victor discovers that the
monster is intelligent well-read and
curious he is extensively everything a
man like Victor would want a lover
there's a direct connection between them
Victor's repulsion toward the monster
could read as the Victorian equivalent
of no fats no fems every time
Frankenstein's creature sometimes refer
to as Adam is seen by the local
population he's met with horror he
hasn't done anything to them but they
look at him as a monster anyway and
rejection drives him to become the
monster they see him as eventually Adam
begs Victor to create for him a mate
he just wants someone like him someone
who knows his struggles someone to share
his life with he like any other person
deserves as much sound familiar though
Victor initially agrees he eventually
destroys the potential bride Adam the
monster is not allowed to have a mate
not allowed to have someone to love and
be loved by because he's a monster
he's not like normal people he doesn't
deserve to have what everyone else does
because he is different and so you see
the parallels between Frankenstein's
monster and being gay now this all
changed a little bit with the film
adaptation James Whale himself a gay
director helmed 1931 s Frankenstein and
it's 1935 sequel the Bride of
Frankenstein whales oddly made sure to
remove the more overt homoerotic subtext
between Victor and his monster by adding
the character of Fritz for Victor to
speak with and by making the monster
mute and also making Victor much more
socially active off-topic but Fritz is
the character we've all come to known as
Igor for some reason also Victor is
inexplicably renamed Henry in the movie
but I'm gonna stick to calling him
Victor for the sake of consistency
Victor is also much more socially active
in the movies as I said adding a further
layer of separation between him and the
monster Victor's relationship with his
wife-to-be Elizabeth is also much more
prominent in the films she's an active
part of his life even being there for
the
of the monster indeed the films never
seem to question Victor's sexuality but
on the contrary repeatedly emphasized
his heterosexuality whereas the novel
leaves this aspect of Victor's character
more open to discussion the novels
Victor is obsessed with the creature who
repeatedly makes his pulse beat faster
and his brows sweat in 1935 s the Bride
of Frankenstein the queerness is more
obvious an old friend of dr.
Frankenstein's doctor Septimus Pretorius
interrupts the evening of his wedding
with the request that they partner up to
create life
stopping Victor from consummating the
marriage with his bride the two men go
off to use his creativity and become the
same-sex parents of a monster
Frankenstein the bringer of life and
Pretorius the nurturer the Frankenstein
is reluctant to admit it
the thought of creating life with
Pretorius and thereby stifling the
female necessity inherent in the process
inspires him Welles decision to cast to
known bisexual actors in the roles only
furthers the queer reading film
historian David scales said there is an
overriding fantasy of male male
procreation there is the persistent
undercurrent of men creating life
without women the original cut of Bride
of Frankenstein was actually 15 minutes
longer than the one we have now which
sits at just over an hour long that's
because the ending was drastically
edited and changed the reason for this
was that it conflicted with the Hayes
production code the era's version of the
MPAA what went against the code well it
was originally made obvious that the
heart of the monsters bride was taken
from Frankenstein's wife Elizabeth this
would imply the Frankenstein in
Pretorius is mutual goal was predicated
on the destruction of Frankenstein's
heterosexual relationship that he
literally sacrificed Elizabeth for the
realization of his other ambitions
effectively he would have chosen a
homosexual partnership over marriage and
since gay anything was a big no-no for
the Hays Code that had to be cut down
instead Elizabeth is actually present
for the ending and escapes the
destruction of the lab along with dr.
Frankenstein while the monster
would be bride and the overtly queer
coded dr. Pretorius are left to perish
gotta let that breeding pair escape
right the very next year in 1936
Universal Pictures released a sequel to
1931 s Dracula entitled Dracula's
daughter a film that featured an
obviously lesbian antagonist and
countess maria zalewska the titular
Dracula's daughter lesbian vampires have
been a staple of the genre since 1872 s
novella Carmilla which predated Dracula
by almost three decades but this was the
first time that it was being shown on
film the lesbian elements were so
obvious that the Hays production code
office actually demanded changes be made
to the script before the movie even went
into production the scene that caused
the biggest issues was between the
countess and model
Lily Warren you
[Music]
stand by the fire for a moment mustn't
catch cold
[Music]
are you looking at me that way
when I do
yeah sure do very well indeed do you
like Jules Lily he's very old and very
beautiful for show to you
I don't think I'll pass tonight I think
I'll go if you don't mind
[Music]
production code enforcer Joseph green
wrote to the producers this will need
very careful handling to avoid any
questionable flavor the whole sequence
will be treated in such a way as to
avoid any suggestion of perverse sexual
desire on the part of Maria or of an
attempted sexual attack by her upon
delay Universal played up the lesbian
angle in the advertising for the film
though with posters for it declaring
save the women of London from Dracula's
daughter some critics of the day picked
up on the lesbian content and tore the
film apart for it the New York world
telegram angrily noted the countess's
tendency to wander around giving the eye
to sweet young girls further gay subtext
can be gleamed from 1941 s The Wolfman
the idea of being a normal man by day
and then a deviant at night was one that
clung to the identities of a lot of gay
men at the time and now and you know
kind of birth furries so as you can see
classic horror represented the queer
experience whether the initial authors
intended it to or not the sense of
hiding being rejected and doomed to
never know true love of being looked at
as a monster in the eyes of the public
even if you've never done anything to
hurt them the monster coming for your
children the mad scientist going against
nature the beast unable to control its
own urges the creature born against
God's will that's what being gay was and
to some extent still is and so we
identified with the monsters not so much
the heroes but we wouldn't be the
monsters forever in a time when the gay
community was being ravaged by AIDS a
blood-borne disease not entirely
separated from the plague bringing
vampire birth by Bram Stoker Hollywood
would unbeknownst to itself make us the
hero
American horror movies went through a
revolution of sorts during the 1950s 60s
and 70s shifting to more sci-fi than
horror aliens from other worlds and
creatures born of nuclear fallout
peppered cinemas across the country
movies about the horrors of the nuclear
bombs such as Godzilla were easy enough
to figure out there wasn't a whole lot
of subtext to Godzilla being a byproduct
of the atomic attacks on Hiroshima and
Nagasaki the sci-fi and Alien movies
were a bit more cleverly coded though
although never clearly stated aliens
were communists they were the Russians
the Chinese the Cubans or Vietnamese
they were infiltrating the wholesomeness
of America and preparing to destroy it
from within they represented the other
the unamerican which for conservatives
at the time meant a whole lot more than
just communists it also meant civil
rights leaders women's rights activists
and homosexuals invasion of the body
snatchers the thing from the other world
and even plan 9 from outer space
directed by the infamous leak we read
would are just some examples of such
films after the Vietnam War horror began
to take a more inward look at America
movies like psycho which I'll talk more
about in part 3 Night of the Living Dead
and the Texas Chainsaw Massacre looked
at the horror that already existed in
America the homegrown evils Night of the
Living Dead for instance was a barely
veiled allegory for the burgeoning
American right wing the racists and
bigots refusing to pass on even
returning from the dead the
introspection of horror and the 60s and
70s made a lot of people in America very
uncomfortable the horror was no longer
coming from without but from within tobe
Hooper's Texas Chainsaw and Wes Craven's
The Hills Have Eyes The Last House on
the Left
all showing how normal Americans can
turn how they could easily become
corrupted evil willing to kill their own
countrymen then in the late 70s and
early 80's a new form of horror arrived
in America
one that at least at first seemed to
leave good Christian Americans alone
acquired immunodeficiency syndrome aids
on June 5th 1981 the Center for Disease
Control and Prevention reported clusters
of pneumonia among gay men in New York
in Los Angeles over the next 18 months
otherwise healthy men of a certain
sexual persuasion began dropping dead
into every major city in the country
the CDC initially called this grid
gay-related immune deficiency
it wasn't until August of 1982 that it
was officially named AIDS it would be
another two years before the cause of
the syndrome a retrovirus called the
human immunodeficiency virus was
discovered in the meantime political
pundits across the country on both the
right and left declared that AIDS was a
moral punishment since the vast majority
of people affected at first were gay men
they proclaimed that the disease was
God's Way of punishing the sinners that
only the truly righteous would escape
the plague believe it or not a lot of
priests mostly televangelists would
actually charge parishioners a fee to
guarantee that they wouldn't get the
disease their reasoning for it was that
well you might have come in contact with
someone with it and even just being a
near one of those sinners was enough for
God to kill you
because that's what Jesus would do as
half of America panicked over AIDS and
the other half welcomed it as a biblical
cleansing or at best ignored its
existence a new trend had developed in
American horror movies the teenage
slasher the slasher movie grew out of
the fear of your fellow Americans onra
namely the Texas Chainsaw Massacre and
really found its place in pop culture
with the 1978 release of Halloween john
carpenter's masterpiece jump-started the
slasher genre and also created a
template that in the time of AIDS would
become the most prevalent theme in
horror namely the virgin lives basically
every slasher movie in the late 70s and
early 80's followed this format
exemplified by the Friday the 13th
series in which camp counselors are
murdered literally for having sex you
see a pair of counselors were off doing
the dirty when Jason Voorhees
developmentally challenged camper was
swimming when he began to drown they
weren't there to save him because they
were having sex his mother then kills
the counselors in question and when the
camp reopens many years later she
returns to exact her vengeance on a new
generation of horny teenagers then she
gets her head cut off and Jason all
grown up comes to kill the counselors
who killed his mom the ones who didn't
let him drown see apparently Jason
survived the drowning and has been
living in the woods around Crystal Lake
ever since like two decades and has
never told anyone that he was alive
never tried to find his mother just kind
of built a house for himself out there
and yet the logic doesn't really add up
suffice it to say the moral of the
Friday the 13th series was have sex and
get a machete to the head this became
Ober obvious once aids became widely
known it wasn't just a moral issue to
not have sex before marriage it was a
life-or-death one at least for the
people who didn't assume that only gays
got AIDS
then came Wes Craven's seminal work a
Nightmare on Elm Street telling the
story of teenager Nancy Thompson as she
is stalked by a killer that can murder
you in your dreams
a nitron Elm Street continued to play
into the fear your fellow Americans
genre Freddy Krueger the killer was once
upon a time just another man working in
the town of Springwood but eventually it
was discovered that he was a child
killer and later confirmed in the series
a child molester when his murder trial
ended in a mistrial due to the police
failing to get the proper search warrant
the parents in Springwood exact advisee
lanty justice against Krueger burning
him alive but Freddy didn't stay dead
and returned to Springwood as a dream
demon hunting down the children of those
who had killed him Nancy was one of
those children at the end of the movie
Krueger is defeated and Nancy lives
happily ever after
except for attacked on stinger ending
that Wes Craven hated until the day he
died less than a year later now without
the involvement of Wes Craven and
Nightmare on Elm Street 2 Freddy's
revenge was released the most
inadvertently gay horror movie ever made
[Music]
no that's not the gayest part gayer
something is trying to get inside my
body gayer
[Music]
a leather bar and the director to this
day says that he didn't realize how gay
the movie was when he was making it
Freddy's revenge breaks with the
traditional formula of the slasher movie
by having the main character be a male
jesse definitely an interesting move in
1985 but one that just doesn't quite
work Jesse's family has recently moved
to spring wood quints identity into the
house that Nancy lived in in part one
shortly after moving into the house
Jesse begins to have nightmares that he
soon discovers are eerily similar to the
ones the houses former occupant had
finally Jesse meets Freddy directly in a
dream and spends the rest of the movie
trying to stay awake and convince people
that he's possessed by the child killer
Freddy is defeated in the end of course
but not until the movie has completely
subverted the slasher genre by turning
Jesse and not his would-be girlfriend
Lisa into the damsel in distress in fact
the movie ends with Lisa needing to come
to Jesse's rescue jesse is quite
obviously put in the female role in the
movie the gayness of the film was
immediately picked up by the queer
audience and even became a favorite to
have on TVs and gay bars in the late 80s
besides the leather bar scene and
honestly how could you not tell that
that scene was gay these are the same
people who thought freddy mercury was
the epitome of masculinity there are
plenty of other obvious nods to Jesse
being gay when Jesse and Lisa come
closest to actually having sex he panics
and runs away because there's another
man's tongue in his mouth so he runs to
the house of his male friend Grady where
he proclaims something is trying to get
inside my body and Grady replies and you
want to sleep with me remember they had
no idea that this was gay well that's
not entirely true
the film screenwriter David Chaston was
gay and purposely wrote gay subtext into
the film though he denied it for years
he eventually admitted that homophobia
was skyrocketing
and I began to think about our core
audience adolescent boys and how all of
this stuff might be trickling down into
their psyches my thought was that
tapping into the angst would give an
extra edge to the horror the actor
portraying Jesse Mark Patton has stated
that the film put the brakes on his
career in Hollywood after playing a gay
teenager and
1982's come back to the five-and-dime
Jimmy Dean Jimmy Dean and then playing
an obviously coded gay character in
Freddy's revenge Patton believes that he
was typecast as gay effectively killing
his career at a time when conservatism
was flourishing in America and gay
equaled AIDS Patton actually retired
from acting after the release of
Freddy's revenge becoming an interior
designer in 2010 Robert Englund Freddie
himself said of the movie the second
Nightmare on Elm Street is obviously
intended as a bisexual themed film it
was the early 80s Jesse's wrestling with
whether to come out or not and his own
sexual desire was manifested by Freddy
his friend is the object of his
affection that's all there in the film a
Nightmare on Elm Street 2 Freddy's
revenge has become a cult classic
especially in the gay community and
although gay characters wouldn't appear
in any nightmare films going forward it
did remain an oddly inclusive slasher
franchise but before the decade of the
1980s ended another movie would whet the
appetite of gay horror fans The Lost
Boys released in 1987 is basically a
helix Studios movie with a bit more of a
budget and a lot less sex after moving
to the town of Santa Clara our
protagonist Michael falls in with a
crowd of typical 1980s bad boys who
happened to be vampires because he has a
crush on the one girl in the group star
even though none of the other guys in
the group show any interest in her
whatsoever Michael decides it must be
because they all have vampire
girlfriends of their own exactly soon
Michael needs to head vampire of the
group David who tricks Michael into
drinking some of his bodily fluids blood
obviously they're vampires what else
could it possibly be it doesn't take
long for star to completely disappear
from the story except for a forced sex
scene that I'm convinced was a request
by the producers and Michael starts
donning the vampire cruise trademark
single earring gay history lesson in the
1950s 60s and 70s gay men would get one
of their ears pierced to show other gay
men that they were available for sex
when they were in cruising areas but
they would get their right ear pierced
and all the guys in this movie have
their left ear pierced so completely
different obviously completely different
not the same at all completely different
and what is with that poster of Rob Lowe
on the closet door would any straight
teenager have that on their wall
really
and this shot I don't know I was an only
child but I don't think brothers get
quite this close but maybe I'm wrong
maybe all those stepbrother videos that
I've totally haven't watched online are
way more factual than I thought also
single ear piercing as a horror movie
The Lost Boys isn't exactly scary but it
definitely kick-started a lot of gay
kids into puberty there's also the
underlying connection to the AIDS
epidemic the movie was released at the
height of the epidemic in 1987 and the
presence of a monstrous disease in this
case vampirism spread by bodily fluids
was not lost on the film's director out
gay filmmaker Joel Schumacher who a
decade later would become famous for
codpieces and bat nipples that same year
Friday the 13th part 7 a new blood was
released which in and of itself isn't
very gay but had a shocking amount of
okay cast members especially for the
time including the main characters love
interest yeah a bunch of us got together
to throw my cousin Michael surprise
birthday party I came over to invite
your daughter oh the burning passion the
90s was pretty much a dead zone for gay
horror but in 2005 we got the first
truly gay horror movie with hell-bent
there's no subtext here this is as gay
as horror gets the majority of the movie
takes place in West Hollywood Halloween
party for God's sake and the movie well
the movies ridiculous but in a good way
most of the characters are more
preoccupied with getting laid than the
killings that are actually going on
around them which admittedly is a
convention of the slasher genre but for
some reason in hell-bent it feels even
more silly than usual oh there's a
crazed killer out there murdering my
friends I need a hookup as soon as
possible
one thing I can say for the movie though
is that although it was made in the
early 2000s it actually feels like a mid
80s classic slasher movie it ignores the
more polished aesthetic of horror movies
at the time for a more grainy retro feel
it was likely just a byproduct of having
such a low budget but I definitely count
it in the movie's favor
the next year in 2006 we got the
Covenant featuring an almost entirely
all-male cast with female characters
appearing mostly as out-of-focus figures
in the background the Covenant follows
the story of a group of male witches who
are all about to turn 18 at which point
they will ascend meaning they will
access their true powers the leader of
the group caleb is obsessively targeted
by the new guy in school chase you're
right they do sound like Sean Cody
models by the way chase is played by
Sebastian Stan aka the Winter Soldier
aka Bucky Barnes aka Captain America's
one true love Stuckey AAF anyway back to
the plot it turns out the chase is also
a witch and some nasty supernatural
occurrences start happening around town
once he gets there which puts caleb on
edge we eventually learned that Chase is
behind it all and that he wants to
consume the other witch's magic to make
himself more powerful he wants their
essences inside of him in the climactic
fight scene the two witches hurl liquidy
globs of opaque magic at each other in
the rain eventually chase is defeated
and caleb drives off with a girl there's
also this scene
[Music]
and this one just you know brother but
this movie is totally straight guys
there's nothing gay about it
nothing it doesn't even have a gay
director or writer like Freddy's revenge
or The Lost Boys I mean it was made by
Renny Harlin director of the long kiss
good night and die hard 2 and also
Nightmare on Elm Street part 4 the only
reason I can figure that this movie is
so damn homoerotic is that the producers
were trying to make a movie aimed at
teenage girls and that this was right
around the time that the Harry Draco
slash fiction really started to take off
now before I bring this video to a close
I'd like to mention a movie that I
watched and you shouldn't in doing my
research for this I was told over and
over again to watch the movie 1313
haunted frat from 2011 and I did
basically a frat house filled with boys
walking around the grandpa's white
underwear is being haunted by a crazy
woman who possesses them that's it
there's no end of the story there's no
story there's barely a plot there's less
acting talent than in a typical porn
shoot and I don't know what the hell
this is to be honest this scene here
this goes on for 15 minutes he walks
around the house like this for 15
minutes in this shower scene 8 minutes
in this random ass scene of proto Zac
Efron touching himself 7 minutes the
bulk of the movies 1 hour and 15 minute
runtime is made up of scenes like this
the other five or so minutes are made up
of this guy trying to get his frat
brothers to help him write a history of
the frat and discovering that it was
built on the site of a destroyed mental
institution I was convinced that I was
watching a porno that had all the sex
cut out honestly I mean the acting the
directing the blocking they're all poor
no quality no no that's mean the
blocking is actually much worse than it
is in a porno now that you've been
warned off of ever watching this
disaster of a photo play I'll do the
actual ending to the video throughout
the 20th century and early into the 21st
gayness has remained coated in horror
movies
with some minor very nice exceptions
Jesse from a knight Ron Elm Street -
isn't gay but he's gay the boys from the
Lost Boys and the Covenant aren't gay
but they're gay actual gay characters
did show up in some movies like David in
the Bride of Chucky Lewis and American
Psycho and Tom and scream 3 Robbie and
scream 4 but they were all supporting
characters with no real arc and not a
whole lot to do in the story like every
other genre in Hollywood the LGBT
community has mostly been left out of
horror movies unless we're in a doomed
love affair a la Brokeback Mountain or
doomed to die in general like in milk or
boys don't cry LGBT characters don't get
a whole lot of attention considering how
niche the horror genre is it's kind of
amazing that we've gotten as much
mainstream attention as we have even
when it's as coated as it is it's
usually pretty hidden but if we look
hard enough we can find ourselves in
these movies sometimes we don't have to
look that hard at all but there is one
instance in which Hollywood has been
more than happy to betray the LGBT
community in both horror and mainstream
movies it's not a new trend in fact it's
been around long before the gay rights
movement brought us into public light we
can always be the main draw for a movie
if we're the killer James Miller will
serve 10 years probation after killing
his neighbor in East Austin the defense
argued Miller stabbed his neighbor when
Spencer allegedly came on to him the
prosecution argued blood evidence didn't
match Miller story the jury agreed with
the defensive stance that he serves no
threat to the community
Miller's defense is also known as the
gay panic defense and while it's a rare
defense it is legal in most states the
gay panic defense is a legal tactic used
by people who have usually been accused
of murder the defendant accuses the
victim of being gay and having
approached them sexually
they claimed that they find the same-sex
advances so offensive and frightening
that it brings on a psychotic state
characterized by unusual violence the
first known use of this defense was in
1954 when a flight attendant named
William Simpson was murdered by two men
Charles Lorenz and Richard killin in
Miami Florida the two men had been
posing as hitchhikers and robbing people
who picked them up they'd been doing
this for months but instead of robbing
Simpson they realized that he was gay
and murdered him the two men were
convicted of manslaughter instead of
first-degree murder after Simpson was
characterized as a pervert during the
trial the gay panic defense has been
used to successfully limit the sentences
of or altogether acquit murderers of
LGBT people in America
ever since gay panic because there is
nothing scarier than a queer person and
for a long time Hollywood agreed
[Music]
members of the LGBTQ community have been
used as villains by Hollywood since
before film had sound if I tried to dive
into every movie with a gay bi lesbian
or transgender villain this video would
never get finished so I'm going to focus
on a few prominent films that really
grabbed the public's attention starting
in 1948 with Alfred Hitchcock's rope
adapted from the play of the same name
which itself was based on the true story
of Leopold and Loeb a gay couple who in
1924 murdered a 14 year old boy just to
see if they could get away with it
spoiler alert they don't rope follows
Brandon and Phillip two college students
who murder one of their classmates as an
intellectual exercise they want to prove
their superiority over the common man by
committing the perfect murder the sexual
tension between Brandon and Phillip is
obvious to anyone with functioning eyes
and ears how did you feel during it very
much anything
till his body went limp and I knew it
was over
and then then I felt tremendously
exhilarated how did you feel
Hitchcock in fact wanted to see how far
he could push the American rating system
with the film the couple's interaction
is so intense at times that has been
compared to watching a sex scene to
maintain that Hitchcock actually shot
the film so that it appears to be one
long 80 minute take he did this so that
once the film was put before the Hays
Code was then rating his board they
wouldn't be able to really force him to
edit any of the movie out sexual tension
or not without destroying the artistic
value of the film it's a pretty clever
move really Jimmy Stewart plays Rupert
in the movie the couples professor and
joins them for a dinner party the table
of which has been set over a chest
containing their victim's body
it's alluded to several times in the
film that he is more than just their
professor and that he has had a sexual
relationship with one if not both of our
murderers rope is one of Hitchcock's
least successful films at the box-office
its financial failure being attributed
to the gay undertones
it also perpetuated two damaging
stereotypes of gay men that of the
dangerous if not psychotic homosexual
and that of the gay man who thinks he's
better than everyone else
the superior Brandon and Phillips
assumption that they could get away with
murder even with the victims corpse in
the same room as a dinner party shows
their belief that homosexuals are
superior to heterosexuals this was a
belief amongst straight people at the
time it was a sort of ooh those gays
think they're better than us it was
especially prevalent in England I guess
they were still sore over the whole
Oscar Wilde thing
rope wouldn't be the last time Hitchcock
dealt with the LGBT community though he
did so again in possibly his most famous
film it was the beginning of the 1960s
following a decade of pure Americana
suburbs white picket fences and I Love
Lucy a time where every white man had a
job
women cooked dinner and even married
couples couldn't be shown sleeping in
the same bed together on TV a clean
proper image was paramount with men in
suits and women dressed smartly and
skirts and blouses hair quaffed pearls
at the neck the horrors of World War 2
in the upheaval of the 1960s and 70s
seemed a world away in either direction
and into this period of safe white-bread
suburban heteronormativity came Alfred
Hitchcock's Psycho
you
the film tells the story of Marion crane
a secretary that absconds with $40,000
from her employer her stay at the
secluded Bates Motel and the aftermath
psycho is famous for two things killing
its main character halfway through the
movie and the most memorable shower
scene this side of the ex rating the
Marion crane isn't the character that
people walk away from psycho talking
about its Norman Bates the manager of
the Bates Motel and his extremely
unhealthy relationship with his mother a
boy's best friend is his mother
corta the theme of psycho is that a
seemingly normal person can harbor many
secrets Marion's unhappiness with her
life
Norman's deeply disturbed nature both
are well hidden from the outside world
until they're not Marion meets Norman
when escaping from her boring unhappy
life a thin but attractive man Norman is
courteous and kind to Marion as he
checks her into the motel although he
shows some odd tendencies such as his
connection with his domineering mother
Norman spends most of the film as a
sympathetic figure due mostly to his
portrayal by Anthony Perkins himself a
gay actor Hitchcock was actually aware
of perkins homosexuality when he cast
him as Norman Bates although he wasn't
out because it was the 60s it was well
known around Hollywood or at least
rumored that Perkins had dated Tab
Hunter a 1950s heartthrob so when it's
revealed at the end of the movie that
Norman is not only the killer but also
has multiple personalities the other
personality being that of his now
revealed to be dead mother it was a
shock to audiences and although it's
more than obvious that Norman is a
madman many people walked away from
psycho looking at Norman as an example
of that horrifying group of people they
hear about in the cities those
homosexuals and transvestites a fear
that Hollywood spent the next two
decades perpetuating with movies like
the Detective vanishing point freebie in
the beam and dressed to kill but
Hollywood's fear-mongering of the LGBT
community would soon turn deadly
with the 1980 release of cruising in the
sweltering heat
in New York summer severed body parts of
murdered gay men are appearing in the
Hudson River because of his resemblance
to the victims the NYPD puts Officer
Steve Burns played by Al Pacino on the
case so Al Pacino moves to the gay area
of town goes to a few leather bars makes
friends with a gay guy and spends most
of the movie ignoring his wife while
hunting down the mystery killer who
spends the movie killing gay men
eventually it's revealed that the killer
is himself a gay man with schizophrenia
he's arrested but then the gay guy Al
Pacino had become friends with turns up
dead and the movie ends with a not so
subtle hint that Al Pacino may have been
the killer all along
cruisin was not well-received by gay
audiences even while it was being filmed
there were protests following the
production the protests were initially
started by Arthur Bell a gay journalist
who wrote a series of articles on which
the film was actually based protesters
would play loud music near the
production let off air horns and chant
disrupting the audio recording they'd
also point large mirrors down on the
production from the top of buildings in
order to mess with the lighting of
outdoor shots once production wrapped
the MPAA saddled the film with an nc-17
rating forcing director William Friedkin
who also directed 1970s at very gay the
boys in the band to cut 40 minutes from
the film in order to secure an R rating
upon release the LGBT community
continued to protest the film many
claiming that its portrayal of the gay
community as a sex-crazed group of
sodomites would destroy any goodwill
that the community had developed not to
mention the gay killer which was playing
into the already developed fear of the
LGBT community then in April of 1980 two
months after the release of the film one
of the bars featured in the movie was
attacked
a lone gunman armed with a submachine
gun entered the bar and emptied two
clips into the crowd before being
stopped 12 people were injured and two
lost their lives throughout the summer
of 1980 there were several attacks on
gay men in the United States with the
attackers all pointing out that they had
seen cruising and that it inspired them
after cruising failed to recoup its
budget at the box office in the toxic
reaction toward the film Hollywood
started to reduce the amount of gay
villains and movies but transgender
characters were still open for
exploitation 1983's sleepaway camp one
of a dozen or so Friday the 13th ripoffs
opened on to children Angela and Peter
voting on a lake with her father and his
boyfriend okay cool
but there's an accident and one of the
children dies eight years later we find
out that Peter was the child who died
and Angela now being raised by her aunt
martha has become extremely introverted
she along with some relatives go to the
camp near the lake where the accident
occurred and in Friday the 13th ripoff
style people start turning up dead but
the big twist in the end isn't that it
was Jason's mom killing people all along
instead we find out that Peter didn't
die in the accident it was actually
Angela who died and once their Aunt
Martha got custody from their gay dad
she began raising Peter as Angela why
you see I always say water under the
bridge but it certainly will be a nice
little surprise when Richard comes home
to find a little girl in the house yes
I've always dreamed of a little girl
just like you I mean we already have a
boy so another one simply would not do
Oh No absolutely not
so as Angela / Peter transgender no the
character is disturbed and suffers from
a particularly traumatic case of PTSD
but they're not transgender though
audiences took Angela / Peter as a
transgender character which further fed
into the public assumption that
transgender people were sick depraved
and likely homicidal a fear that would
reach a breaking point
in 1991 released on Valentine's Day
Silence of the Lambs adapted from the
novel by Thomas Harris tells the story
of Clarice Starling a young FBI trainee
who finds herself in the middle of the
biggest manhunt in the country there's a
man killing and skinning women a man the
press has started calling Buffalo Bill
Clarice enlists the help of famed
psychiatrist and infamous murderer
Hannibal the cannibal Lecter to help her
track down Buffalo Bill who was a former
patient of his before Hannibal was
locked up Clarice tracks down the
psychotic killer rescues his final
victim and kills him in self-defense to
bring you a special report Silence of
the Lambs is actually the first movie to
be labeled a psychological thriller it
was a horror movie when it first came
out and was even called that by the
director but a year later when it got
the Best Picture nomination at the
Oscars and then eventually won the
Academy and members of the Academy
started calling it a psychological
thriller instead of a horror movie
because they didn't like the idea of the
Academy's biggest award Best Picture
going to a horror movie
and so the term psychological thriller
was born in both the novel and film
Buffalo Bill whose real name is Jamie
Gumb is portrayed as something close to
a transgender person at least on the
surface he appears to want to be a woman
creating a bodysuit out of the flesh of
his victims but as it stated in both the
film and book he is not transgender
Hannibal Lecter says belly is not a real
transsexual but he thinks he is he tries
to be he's tried to be a lot of things I
expect gum is certainly a deranged
character and is in the very least
bisexual having been in a relationship
with one of Hannibal's male patients as
well as women in the past but his
identity as a transgender character is
far more questionable he has a
self-loathing that is well beyond
anything typical his own self-hatred
drives him to want to be something else
anything else than what he actually is
although he's likely more gay than
bisexual he has an obsession with women
stemming from his mother abandoning him
as a child he would eventually find out
that she was an alcoholic prostitute but
went on to create a beauty queen image
of his mother in his head the perfect
woman a woman that anyone would want to
be including him Buffalo Bill was not a
transgender individual but as Lecter
said he wanted to be he applied for
gender reassignment surgery at multiple
hospitals but was universally declined
because of his mental state
despite what Republicans think you can't
just get a sex change there's a massive
amount of psychological testing before
doctors will move forward with the
procedure especially in the case of male
to female gender confirmation so when
bill was denied this procedure he
decided to make himself into a woman any
way he could there was massive backlash
against the film upon release as the
LGBT community accused the movie of both
transphobia and homophobia the director
Jonathan Demi did his best to defend the
film but most people still look at it as
a piece of overtly anti LGBT cinema
although it was stated very clearly that
from a psychological perspective Buffalo
Bill is not a transgender person it's
still a thorny situation Bill's gender
identity is only commented on by
cisgender people in the book and film
and so cisgender people are in essence
deciding whether or not a person is
transgender trans activists argued that
if Buffalo Bill thinks he is
transgendered then he is and it's not
the place of the cisgender characters to
decide which would mean that bill is a
terrible representation of transgender
women who for the most part are very
passive and non violent in fact trans
women are infinitely more likely to be
the victim of a violent crime than the
perpetrator of one and therefore the
argument that Silence of the Lambs is a
transphobic film holds some weight
regarding this type of transgender
character in fiction LGBT activist
Savannah Stobbs said
transgender women are often represented
as psychotic killers as a lazy method of
responding to mainstream society's fear
of gender non-conforming people
this popular trope in film reinforces
the idea that being transgender is
unnatural and perverted and pathologize
'as gender fluidity but on the other
hand with Buffalo Bill being so
obviously insane can his own feelings
about his gender identity be valid he is
detached from reality and in the book it
is stated quite clearly that even if he
had gotten the gender confirmation
surgery he would have eventually found a
different reason - at least harm people
if not outright ly kill them because he
is psychotic unhinged his gender
identity has nothing to do with that in
the book it is noted by a specialist who
saw bill about the gender confirmation
surgery that he did not present any of
the characteristics of a transgender
woman furthering the argument in the
fiction at least that he is not
transgender and of course Buffalo Bill
is not a real person he is a character
created by an author and then
interpreted by filmmakers Thomas Harris
did not write a transgender character
but an extremely psychologically
disturbed one a character with a
horrifying childhood lifelong emotional
instability and violent tendencies
a psychopathic character that hates
himself so much that he's willing to
torture kill and fillet women to be
someone else there could be a debate to
be had whether or not Buffalo Bill is a
transgender character but the most
important thing might be how his
character was perceived by audiences and
many audiences did see him as a
transgender character Buffalo Bills
presence can still be felt today in
bathroom laws across the United States
and in the fear-mongering of right-wing
conservatives Buffalo Bill has even been
mentioned by fox news commentators when
trying to defend the discriminatory
bathroom laws with some Republicans even
nicknaming North Carolina's bathroom law
HB - the Buffalo Bill so even though
Thomas Harris and Jonathan Demi did not
intend for Bill to be a trans character
he is now ingrained in the public
consciousness as the worst possible
example of the transgender community
highly unrealistic one LGBT villains
would remain a staple in Hollywood films
for years to come the bisexual Catherine
Tramell in 1992 s Basic Instinct drew
the ire of lesbian and bisexual groups
especially pointing out how bisexuals
had minimal if any representation in
mainstream media and how the biggest
bisexual character was a murderous
narcissistic psychopath but we're
cruising which did portray some LGBT
characters as human and sympathetic
failed at the box office
Basic Instinct portrayed a murderous
bisexual woman and was box-office gold
taking in three hundred and fifty
million dollars in 1992 that's over half
a billion dollars when you adjusted for
inflation Hollywood brought out the
bisexual villains several more times in
the 1990s most notably in the talented
mr. Ripley in 1999 but none of them had
quite as much success as Basic Instinct
so as you can see the LGBT community has
been fodder for Hollywood's villain
machine for almost a century we can be
betrayed as the terrifying other the
corrupted city dwellers that the
suburban Knights have fled from
but Hollywood itself has strayed away
from portraying gay characters as
villains in more recent years you'd be
hard-pressed to find a Buffalo Bill in a
cinema near you in 2018 in fact there's
another remake of psycho in the works
and they've already said that Norman
will not be dressing as his mother in
this version so things have gotten
better
mainstream media no longer portrays us
as monsters teenage girls and their moms
were the biggest audience for this
year's loved Simon
but with glads 2018 survey of LGBT
representation and cinema showing that
our percentage of representation on the
big screen is lower now than it has been
in over a decade maybe we need to ask
the question is no representation better
than bad representation
[Music]
you